## Minutes - 24 Nov 2021

### Discussion
- Stefano: in our previous work the scheme was forecasting of the raw time series + clustering. It gave something good but nothing amazing: the forecasting was poor AR(p) model.
- Stefano: it would be good to apply continuos learning to update model's weights as data flow in (some papers here to be found)
- Amit's notebook: financial data predicted with LSTM. Discussion on how financial data are different from GW data: GW data are noise; in finance, noise is small
- Amit presented a paper on BNS and forecasting [link](https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0370269321001258)
- Melissa presented a detchar work on noise characterization through fractal analysis [link](https://dcc.ligo.org/DocDB/0177/G2101601/001/fractals_detcharF2F.pdf). It is interesting to see how time dependent features can be extracted from the raw time series
- Sarah: could be very useful to include auxiliary channels into the analysis. They provide lots of information (maybe combine them together?)
- Someone (Melissa? Amit? Sarah?) shared a [paper](https://arxiv.org/pdf/1812.05185.pdf) on the relation between earthquakes and LIGO data. Interesting to show how auxiliary channels cna provide important additional information

### Definition of Anomaly
We agreed to look for anomalies in the 100ms time scale. This would amount to look for glitches and bursts.

### Anomaly Detection Framework
The most promising way for anomaly is to extract from raw data a number of time dependent quantities. The extraction should be cheap (otherwise, not worth).
The idea is to build a feature vector for each time bin on the time scale of interest (~100ms), which gathers some of these quantities. Of course the resolution of the time binning should be close the target time scale. The feature vector can then be fed into a clustering algorithm that would detect any anomaly.
It is crucial here to identfy a number (~5/10) of possible features for the data. Options are:
  - Fractal dimension (whatever it is)
  - PSD on the short time scale
  - Frequency content of each small bin
  - Other??

### Action items
- Robin should look for ~2hours of data some with data quality issues and some other fine. They would serve as a starting point for the exploration
- We should all read to some papers
