## Minutes - 21 Dec 2021

### General discussion
We identify the main framework of our anomaly detection "pipeline".
Build from the data several time series of different features. A forecasting+prediction scheme will be used to identify anomalies.
As everything will be unsupervised, an anomaly would be any outlier identified by the algorithm.

The set of features we're looking at are:
- Fractal dimension (talk with Marco Cavaglia)
- BNS range (easy to compute)
- Omicron triggers (extract them from the pipeline)
- Autoregressive coefficients of MESA (they may tell something about the local autocorrelation)
The features may be extracted also from some _auxiliary channels_, mostly seismographic.

It is crucial to set the time scale of our analysis. This will control the discretization step of the "feature time series" and will set the length of the detected anomalies.
This paramer is something we need to tune carefully (validation work). It may be approximately `200 ms`.

On the long term, there is the issue of identifying the nature of the detected anomalies (glitch? CBC? Burst? Other?). Two options for this:
- Supervised ML classifier
- Filtering the glitches with Melissa's glitch bank (to remove many glitches)

### Action items
- For Melissa (after the holidays): contact some people
  - Marco Cavaglia
  - Bas Swinkels for getting omicron triggers
  - Coordinate with Boosting Alpha
- For Robin: implement more features and look into auxiliary channels
- For Stefano: extract autoregressive coefficients from data and look at them

### Useful things to read
- Efficient Gravitational-wave Glitch Identification from Environmental Data Through Machine Learning [1911.11831](https://arxiv.org/abs/1911.11831)
- LIGO Science links (lots of detchar links with auxiliary channels): https://labcit.ligo.caltech.edu/~pshawhan/scilinks.html


