## Minutes - 11 Jan 2022

### General discussion
Marco presented his work on fractal dimension.
Robin, Sarah, Melissa, Amit and Stefano presented their work on anomaly detection.

Discussion on the performance of fractal dimension computation: is it feasible for online anomaly detection/detchar?

We agreed to work together to include fractal dimension (plus possibly other numbers) in an anomaly detection pipeline.
The general framework, as discussed in previous meetings, is as follow. The strain + auxiliary channels are binned in small time windows (O(0.1s)): for each time bin a number of feautures are computed.
They can be fractal dimension of all the channels or some other quantities [discussed previously](https://github.com/stefanoschmidt1995/GWAnomalyDetection/blob/main/minutes/2021221.md).
The aim is to build a time dependent feature vector, provinding a complete description of the detector status in the given time bin.
An unsupervised clustering algorithm will be then be applied to detect outliers.
A possibility is to fit to the data a Gaussian Mixture Model with Dirichlet prior ([scikit-learn](https://scikit-learn.org/stable/modules/mixture.html) has a nice implementation).
The model is simple and interpretable. As a second step, we could think of giving some meaning to the clusters (i.e. cluster of glitches, cluster of CBC, cluster of unknow bursts, etc...).
Probably a dimensionality (PCA) reduction could be used to reduce the number of features before the clustering.


### Some detchar links:
- Please add :)

